<div class="navheader" data-xmlns="http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/transitional">

Chapter 47. Background Worker Processes

</div>

[Prev](spi-examples.html "46.5. Examples") 

[Up](server-programming.html "Part V. Server Programming")

Part V. Server Programming

[Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 10.3 Documentation")

 [Next](logicaldecoding.html "Chapter 48. Logical Decoding")

-----

<div id="BGWORKER" class="chapter">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

## Chapter 47. Background Worker Processes

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span id="id-1.8.13.2" class="indexterm"></span>

PostgreSQL can be extended to run user-supplied code in separate
processes. Such processes are started, stopped and monitored by
`postgres`, which permits them to have a lifetime closely linked to the
server's status. These processes have the option to attach to
<span class="productname">PostgreSQL</span>'s shared memory area and to
connect to databases internally; they can also run multiple transactions
serially, just like a regular client-connected server process. Also, by
linking to <span class="application">libpq</span> they can connect to
the server and behave like a regular client application.

<div class="warning">

### Warning

There are considerable robustness and security risks in using background
worker processes because, being written in the `C` language, they have
unrestricted access to data. Administrators wishing to enable modules
that include background worker process should exercise extreme caution.
Only carefully audited modules should be permitted to run background
worker processes.

</div>

Background workers can be initialized at the time that
<span class="productname">PostgreSQL</span> is started by including the
module name in `shared_preload_libraries`. A module wishing to run a
background worker can register it by calling
`RegisterBackgroundWorker(BackgroundWorker *worker`) from its
`_PG_init()`. Background workers can also be started after the system is
up and running by calling the function
`RegisterDynamicBackgroundWorker(BackgroundWorker *worker,
BackgroundWorkerHandle **handle`). Unlike `RegisterBackgroundWorker`,
which can only be called from within the postmaster,
`RegisterDynamicBackgroundWorker` must be called from a regular backend.

The structure `BackgroundWorker` is defined thus:

``` programlisting
typedef void (*bgworker_main_type)(Datum main_arg);
typedef struct BackgroundWorker
{
    char        bgw_name[BGW_MAXLEN];
    int         bgw_flags;
    BgWorkerStartTime bgw_start_time;
    int         bgw_restart_time;       /* in seconds, or BGW_NEVER_RESTART */
    char        bgw_library_name[BGW_MAXLEN];
    char        bgw_function_name[BGW_MAXLEN];
    Datum       bgw_main_arg;
    char        bgw_extra[BGW_EXTRALEN];
    int         bgw_notify_pid;
} BackgroundWorker;
```

`bgw_name` is a string to be used in log messages, process listings and
similar contexts.

`bgw_flags` is a bitwise-or'd bit mask indicating the capabilities that
the module wants. Possible values are:

<div class="variablelist">

  - <span class="term">`BGWORKER_SHMEM_ACCESS`</span>  
    <span id="id-1.8.13.8.2.1.2.1.1" class="indexterm"></span> Requests
    shared memory access. Workers without shared memory access cannot
    access any of <span class="productname">PostgreSQL's</span> shared
    data structures, such as heavyweight or lightweight locks, shared
    buffers, or any custom data structures which the worker itself may
    wish to create and use.

  - <span class="term">`BGWORKER_BACKEND_DATABASE_CONNECTION`</span>  
    <span id="id-1.8.13.8.2.2.2.1.1" class="indexterm"></span> Requests
    the ability to establish a database connection through which it can
    later run transactions and queries. A background worker using
    `BGWORKER_BACKEND_DATABASE_CONNECTION` to connect to a database must
    also attach shared memory using `BGWORKER_SHMEM_ACCESS`, or worker
    start-up will fail.

</div>

`bgw_start_time` is the server state during which `postgres` should
start the process; it can be one of `BgWorkerStart_PostmasterStart`
(start as soon as `postgres` itself has finished its own initialization;
processes requesting this are not eligible for database connections),
`BgWorkerStart_ConsistentState` (start as soon as a consistent state has
been reached in a hot standby, allowing processes to connect to
databases and run read-only queries), and
`BgWorkerStart_RecoveryFinished` (start as soon as the system has
entered normal read-write state). Note the last two values are
equivalent in a server that's not a hot standby. Note that this setting
only indicates when the processes are to be started; they do not stop
when a different state is reached.

`bgw_restart_time` is the interval, in seconds, that `postgres` should
wait before restarting the process, in case it crashes. It can be any
positive value, or `BGW_NEVER_RESTART`, indicating not to restart the
process in case of a crash.

`bgw_library_name` is the name of a library in which the initial entry
point for the background worker should be sought. The named library will
be dynamically loaded by the worker process and `bgw_function_name` will
be used to identify the function to be called. If loading a function
from the core code, this must be set to "postgres".

`bgw_function_name` is the name of a function in a dynamically loaded
library which should be used as the initial entry point for a new
background worker.

`bgw_main_arg` is the `Datum` argument to the background worker main
function. This main function should take a single argument of type
`Datum` and return `void`. `bgw_main_arg` will be passed as the
argument. In addition, the global variable `MyBgworkerEntry` points to a
copy of the `BackgroundWorker` structure passed at registration time;
the worker may find it helpful to examine this structure.

On Windows (and anywhere else where `EXEC_BACKEND` is defined) or in
dynamic background workers it is not safe to pass a `Datum` by
reference, only by value. If an argument is required, it is safest to
pass an int32 or other small value and use that as an index into an
array allocated in shared memory. If a value like a `cstring` or `text`
is passed then the pointer won't be valid from the new background worker
process.

`bgw_extra` can contain extra data to be passed to the background
worker. Unlike `bgw_main_arg`, this data is not passed as an argument to
the worker's main function, but it can be accessed via
`MyBgworkerEntry`, as discussed above.

`bgw_notify_pid` is the PID of a PostgreSQL backend process to which the
postmaster should send `SIGUSR1` when the process is started or exits.
It should be 0 for workers registered at postmaster startup time, or
when the backend registering the worker does not wish to wait for the
worker to start up. Otherwise, it should be initialized to `MyProcPid`.

Once running, the process can connect to a database by calling
`BackgroundWorkerInitializeConnection(char *dbname`, *`char *username`*)
or `BackgroundWorkerInitializeConnectionByOid(Oid dboid`, *`Oid
useroid`*). This allows the process to run transactions and queries
using the `SPI` interface. If `dbname` is NULL or `dboid` is
`InvalidOid`, the session is not connected to any particular database,
but shared catalogs can be accessed. If `username` is NULL or `useroid`
is `InvalidOid`, the process will run as the superuser created during
`initdb`. A background worker can only call one of these two functions,
and only once. It is not possible to switch databases.

Signals are initially blocked when control reaches the background
worker's main function, and must be unblocked by it; this is to allow
the process to customize its signal handlers, if necessary. Signals can
be unblocked in the new process by calling
`BackgroundWorkerUnblockSignals` and blocked by calling
`BackgroundWorkerBlockSignals`.

If `bgw_restart_time` for a background worker is configured as
`BGW_NEVER_RESTART`, or if it exits with an exit code of 0 or is
terminated by `TerminateBackgroundWorker`, it will be automatically
unregistered by the postmaster on exit. Otherwise, it will be restarted
after the time period configured via `bgw_restart_time`, or immediately
if the postmaster reinitializes the cluster due to a backend failure.
Backends which need to suspend execution only temporarily should use an
interruptible sleep rather than exiting; this can be achieved by calling
`WaitLatch()`. Make sure the `WL_POSTMASTER_DEATH` flag is set when
calling that function, and verify the return code for a prompt exit in
the emergency case that `postgres` itself has terminated.

When a background worker is registered using the
`RegisterDynamicBackgroundWorker` function, it is possible for the
backend performing the registration to obtain information regarding the
status of the worker. Backends wishing to do this should pass the
address of a `BackgroundWorkerHandle *` as the second argument to
`RegisterDynamicBackgroundWorker`. If the worker is successfully
registered, this pointer will be initialized with an opaque handle that
can subsequently be passed to
`GetBackgroundWorkerPid(BackgroundWorkerHandle *`, *`pid_t *`*) or
`TerminateBackgroundWorker(BackgroundWorkerHandle *`).
`GetBackgroundWorkerPid` can be used to poll the status of the worker: a
return value of `BGWH_NOT_YET_STARTED` indicates that the worker has not
yet been started by the postmaster; `BGWH_STOPPED` indicates that it has
been started but is no longer running; and `BGWH_STARTED` indicates that
it is currently running. In this last case, the PID will also be
returned via the second argument. `TerminateBackgroundWorker` causes the
postmaster to send `SIGTERM` to the worker if it is running, and to
unregister it as soon as it is not.

In some cases, a process which registers a background worker may wish to
wait for the worker to start up. This can be accomplished by
initializing `bgw_notify_pid` to `MyProcPid` and then passing the
`BackgroundWorkerHandle *` obtained at registration time to
`WaitForBackgroundWorkerStartup(BackgroundWorkerHandle *handle`, *`pid_t
*`*) function. This function will block until the postmaster has
attempted to start the background worker, or until the postmaster dies.
If the background runner is running, the return value will
`BGWH_STARTED`, and the PID will be written to the provided address.
Otherwise, the return value will be `BGWH_STOPPED` or
`BGWH_POSTMASTER_DIED`.

If a background worker sends asynchronous notifications with the
`NOTIFY` command via the Server Programming Interface (SPI), it should
call `ProcessCompletedNotifies` explicitly after committing the
enclosing transaction so that any notifications can be delivered. If a
background worker registers to receive asynchronous notifications with
the `LISTEN` through SPI, the worker will log those notifications, but
there is no programmatic way for the worker to intercept and respond to
those notifications.

The `src/test/modules/worker_spi` module contains a working example,
which demonstrates some useful techniques.

The maximum number of registered background workers is limited by
[max\_worker\_processes](runtime-config-resource.html#GUC-MAX-WORKER-PROCESSES).

</div>

<div class="navfooter">

-----

|                           |                               |                              |
| :------------------------ | :---------------------------: | ---------------------------: |
| [Prev](spi-examples.html) | [Up](server-programming.html) | [Next](logicaldecoding.html) |
| 46.5. Examples            |      [Home](index.html)       | Chapter 48. Logical Decoding |

</div>
